Plots images (#2839)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/plots/index.md

# plots

A set of commands to visualize and compare _plot metrics_:
[show](/doc/command-reference/plots/show),
[diff](/doc/command-reference/plots/diff), and

> [modify](/doc/command-reference/plots/modify).

Reviewer: I think we should clarify here (in the usage block below) and in https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/plots/modify that it only works with structured file plots.

Reviewer 2: Related https://github.com/iterative/dvc/issues/6669

Author: @jorgeorpinel added context to `modify`
Also created:
 https://github.com/iterative/dvc/pull/6742

processing code, and can be defined in `dvc.yaml` (`plots` field) for tracking
(optional).

DVC is able to handle two general types of plots:

1. Data series files, which can be JSON, YAML, CSV or TSV files.
2. Image files, like JPGE, GIF, PNG.

DVC generates plots as static HTML websites that can be open with a web browser.
Data series plots utilize [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) for
rendering. Vega-Lite is a declarative grammar for defining plots using JSON. The
plots can also be saved as SVG or PNG image filed from the browser. Image type

> plots are rendered using `<img>` tag.

Reviewer 3: out of curiosity - how do we deal with an image file from a past commit? when I do `dvc plots diff`? do we embed it into HTML, copy it nearby?

Author: Currently we just insert files with identical path into same `<div>` tag.:

<img width="512" alt="Screenshot 2021-09-21 at 22 44 56" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10195618/134244961-108df9f7-f312-4361-b1ad-0eba0a6b9a12.png">

During iterative/dvc#6603 I will try to make it look less terrible.

Reviewer 3: yep, but where does it take the image itself from HEAD? the `png` file - how does it read from the Git history?

Author: We read it as a binary file and later write the same way into the webpage.

It can become problematic (memory-wise) in case of multiple images and revision, so further development assumes 
using cache URL instead of binary data (in cached plots use case). In the case of git, well this approach will probably have to remain.

Reviewer 4: @shcheklein Not sure if you meant how images are collected or how they are sourced into the HTML. If you meant the latter, `dvc plots diff` now generates a directory that looks like:

```
dvc_plots
├── index.html
└── static
    ├── HEAD_image.png
    └── workspace_image.png
```

Reviewer 3: Thanks @dberenbaum ! I'm not sure if then `We read it as a binary file` by Pawel is still relevant?

I was asking this because we'll need access to these data from the VS Code env. We are iterating right now on the requirements and I'm curious what kind of interface we can expect/build for it.

Reviewer 4: I think the comment from @pared is relevant for Studio, but probably not for VSCode. We don't have any `--show-json` or other machine-readable output from `dvc plots diff` today for images, so either VSCode can read directly from the generated `dvc_plots` directory, or we will need to add some other option to provide the needed info.

Reviewer 3: I think it's fine for us to start with `dvc plots diff` if it supports experiments/checkpoints. But it doesn't sound like a very efficient thing. Ideally yes, we'll need an interface to see the list of available things across commits/experiments and either path to those or a command that would stream them for us (if it's a Git history) and/or find another way.

Reviewer 3: cc @rogermparent ^^

processing code, and can be defined in `dvc.yaml` (`plots` field) for tracking
(optional).

> DVC is able to handle two general types of plots:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DVC can work with two types of plots files:
```

> 2. Image files, like JPEG, GIF, or PNG.

Reviewer: > like JPEG, GIF, or PNG.

What other ones? Any one that the browser will render I assume?

Author: Not quite, as we recognize the images by extension.
I need to manually expand that list on the DVC side.
Created iterative/dvc#6714

> 1. Data series files, which can be JSON, YAML, CSV or TSV files.
> 2. Image files, like JPEG, GIF, PNG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Data series files, which can be JSON, YAML, CSV or TSV.
2. Image files, like JPEG, GIF, or PNG.
```

> DVC generates plots as static HTML websites that can be open with a web browser.
> Data series plots utilize [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) for
> rendering. Vega-Lite is a declarative grammar for defining plots using JSON. The
> plots can also be saved as SVG or PNG image filed from the browser. Image type
> plots are rendered using `<img>` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DVC generates plots as static HTML webpages that can be open with a web browser. They
can also be saved as SVG or PNG image files from the browser.

Data-series plots utilize [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) for
rendering (declarative JSON grammar for defining graphics). Image-type
plots are rendered using `<img>` tags directly.
```

processing code, and can be defined in `dvc.yaml` (`plots` field) for tracking
(optional).

DVC can work with two types of plots files:

1. Data series files, which can be JSON, YAML, CSV or TSV.
2. Image files, like JPEG, GIF, or PNG.

DVC generates plots as static HTML webpages that can be open with a web browser.
They can also be saved as SVG or PNG image files from the browser.

Data-series plots utilize [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) for
rendering (declarative JSON grammar for defining graphics). Image-type plots are
rendered using `<img>` tags directly.

> ### Supported file formats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported file formats
```

> Image type plots are included in HTML as is, without additional processing.
> 
> > ⚠️ When using image plots we recommend to store them in DVC cache and not in
> > Git history, to prevent the repository size from bloating.
> 
> Data series plots can be organized as data series in JSON, YAML 1.2, CSV, or TSV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image-type plots are included in HTML as-is, without additional processing.

> We recommend to track these source image files with DVC instead of Git,
> to prevent the repository from bloating.

Structured plots can be read from JSON, YAML 1.2, CSV, or TSV
```

Image type plots are included in HTML as is, without additional processing.

> ⚠️ When using image plots we recommend to store them in DVC cache and not in

> > git history, to prevent the repository size from bloating.

Reviewer 3: git -> Git

> ## Plot templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Plot templates (data series only)
```

> Users have the ability to change the way data series plots are displayed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users have the ability to change the way data-series plots are displayed by
```
